Using the historical records of fatal traffic accidents, grouped by county and year, provided by United States Department of Transportation, each reported accident was split into three categories: treated boroughs of New York, control counties, and a non-comparable group. Defining a control group was not straightforward, as New York City is unique in many ways. The one hundred counties with the largest populations were used to form the control group, because all the boroughs except Staten Island are within the largest hundred. The largest county, Los Angeles, was excluded from the analysis. It has the highest number of fatalities by a large margin, causing it to have an undesirably large effect on the trend of the control group. The speed camera policy went into effect at the beginning of 2014, the data spanned the timeframe of 2009 – 2019. Five years is an adequate amount of time to compare the pretreatment trends, in addition to the effects after the public had adjusted to the policy. Expanding the window of observation further would have resulted in data from the 2020 pandemic, which could have altered the analysis in many ways that would be difficult to understand. The comparison of the shift in trend of fatalities after the introduction of speed cameras into the New York boroughs provides an estimate of the effects of the policy implementation. The is analysis was conducted through the regression equation:
Fatalitiesit​ = β1 * Treatedi​ ​+ ∑ βt * Yeart  +  ∑ δn * (Yeart​ * Treatedi​) + County Fixed Effectsi +ϵit​
Where δn, the difference in the expected number of fatalities in yeart within the boroughs where speed cameras were introduced from the control group. One key assumption for δn to be interpreted as the causal effect of the introduction of speed camera is the trend of the number of fatalities before the program are the same, less random noise.

The average number of fatalities per county does not show identical trends before treatment in 2014, within the control group there was a sharp decrease from 2009 to 2010, that was not present in the treatment counties. This was not considered significant enough to deter the use of the event study model because both groups had a slowly growing positive trend across the five-year period. 
